# dijkstraShortestPath
This C++ implementation of Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm uses an adjacency matrix representation. It does not use a priority queue or other supporting data structures but rather simplifies by having a single graph class which includes all necessary methods in order to access the private variables, set them and compute the shortest paths and respective average. 
Within the main.cpp file a display of this class's capabilities is made. 3 graphs were created using the graph() constructor function, one of which has had values altered in order to both provide an easy test case to confirm correct implementation while simultaneously showcasing the manipulator methods requested for the homework assignment. 
The shortest path computation consists of an initialization step, where set the distance of the starting node to itself be 0 and set all other nodes to be at a distance of infinity (which here is represented by a value 500 units over the upper limit set in the constructor call) 
Until all nodes have been visited, the unvisited node with the smallest known distance from the start node is visited. The visited node's unvisited neighbors are examined and for each unvisited neighbor a distance from it to starting node is calculated. If the calculated distance of a node is less than the known distance, the shortest path is updated. The previous node is then updated for each of the update shortest paths. At last, the visited node is added to the list of visited nodes and the process loop begins again. 
